# Function

  Functions are defined from a set to another set.
  
  Function composition is associative,
  
  i.e (f o g) o h => f o (g o h)

## Higher order function

  Higher-order functions are functions that can either take other functions as arguments or return them as results.

## Pure Functions

  Pure functions (or expressions) have no side effects (memory or I/O).

### Properties of pure functions

  * If the result is not used, it can be removed without affecting other expressions.
  * If called with arguments that cause no side-effects, the result is constant wrt that argument list.
  * If there is no data dependency, their order can be reversed or be performed in parallel without interference.
  * If the entire language does not allow side-effects, then any evaluation strategy can be used by the compiler.

## Anonymous function

  Form :  parameters => [{] body []}]
      
  parameters may have annotation each parameter is separated using comma and curly braces are omitted

  Type of the return values is inferred sung the type if the last expression in the body.

  ```scala
  object Main {
  def init(args: Array[String]): Unit = {
      val rng = new Random(11);
      val c = constant(10)
      val n = c(rng)
  }
  ```

Adds a function that adds n to any number. This is a closure as it remembers the n pass returned function.

  ```scala
      def addNn:Int() = (x:Int) => x + n   // Returns a function.
  ```

## Composition

  ```scala
  def Composition(g:Int => Int, f:Int => Int) = x => g(f(x))
  ```

## Partial Application

   We can omit a set of parameters and the resultant object takes the rest of the parameters.

  ```scala
  val f = o.add(10, _)
  ```

  calling f(20) yields 30.

  The reviewer of a method call can be omitted too. The implicit this or receiver becomes the parameter

  ```scala
  val randInt : PRng => (Int, PRnG) = _.nextInt
  ```

  In scala | a method is not a function
  In MOST CASES, the compiler will convert method to function as required.

  Packages a value and the function together... analogous to pure in Haskell or .of in java

  ```scala
  def constant(n:Int):PRnG => (Int, PRng) {
     rng => (n, rng)
  }
  ```
